pyOS march 2024 newsletter (#346)
pyOpenSci/pyopensci.github.io: _posts/2024-03-01-pyos-newsletter-march-2024.md

---

> layout: single

Reviewer: this is great - have a look at this page
https://www.pyopensci.org/blog/scipy-2023-community.html
it uses the classes:wide option to make for a wider layout. i wonder if what we've been using is too narrow?

what do you think? im only bringing this up as we can establish our "blog" style now that you are working on this!! and i think what's bothering me is the font size / characters per line vs width of the div/ container.

Author: @lwasser I think I prefer the page with `classes: wide` and will put that in for this post! I think there's still room to figure out the best visual look, but this is a good stepping stone.

Reviewer: perfect. me too! i do agree the visual look isn't quite there but atleast that layout gives us more space. i've been using a custom wide layout for most of the none blog pages. we can always revise a template.

title: "pyOpenSci Newsletter: March 2024"
excerpt: "New partnerships, packages, and conference announcements!"
author: "Jesse Mostipak"
permalink: /blog/pyos-newsletter-march-2024.html
header:
  overlay_color: "#666"
  overlay_filter: 0.6
categories:
  - blog-post
  - community
toc: true

> comments: true

Reviewer: Just a note i haven't actually tested out the comments system since i set it up which was a few years back 😆 . it might be worth doing so.

Author: @lwasser I tested this [on the shark attack post](https://www.pyopensci.org/blog/scipy-2023-community.html) and it looks like comments are still good to go!

Reviewer: THANK YOU for testing this. i saw your comment in the discussion which is how it should work. perfect!!

---

## :star: Welcome, AstroPy

> pyOpenSci has officially partnered with the [AstroPy Project](https://www.astropy.org/) through our [Community Partnership program](https://www.pyopensci.org/partners.html). AstroPy is a Community Python Library for Astronomy, and the AstroPy Project is a community effort to develop a single core package for Astronomy in Python, while also fostering interoperability between Python astronomy packages. We're thrilled to be partnering with the AstroPy project, and can't wait to share more!

Reviewer: What are your thoughts on graphics for blog posts? 
this graphic: 
![image](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/pyopensci.github.io/assets/7649194/ea22f458-6baa-4208-8851-7fad63104327)

could be here for instance with a caption about how community partnerships work.

Author: I think graphics are great! normally I'd include (many) more, but because this is our first pass at this, and because this is a back-dated post, I didn't take the time to get graphics incorporated. normally I like at least one graphic//visual per section.

Reviewer: ok cool. let's plan for the future then. good point about this being backdated.

## :purple_heart: Hello, sunPy

[sunPy](https://sunpy.org/), a Python package that provides fundamental tools for accessing, loading, and interacting with solar physics data in Python, has successfully gone through the pyOpenSci open peer review process, which is the first step in our budding partnership with the heliophysics community!

You can read more about sunPy and pyOpenSci in [this lovely blog post](https://sunpy.org/posts/2024/2024-01-24-pyopensci) from Nabil Friej.

## :wave: Say hi to sciform

> The [sciform package](https://sciform.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), which is used to convert Python numbers into strings according to a variety of user-selected scientific formatting options, was accepted into the pyOpenSci ecosystem! sciform, like all of the pyOpenSci packages, completed the [pyOpenSci open peer review process](https://www.pyopensci.org/about-peer-review/index.html). And the community support around getting the sciform package review-ready was amazing to see!

Reviewer: Two questions here Jesse.

1. can we link to the author / submitor github profile here to give them more visibility. Justin? we could even include a picture of him. BUT please tell em if i'm making a low hanging fruit task heavier to implement. 
2. You have created these awesome package graphics for social. i wonder if we created them with this newsletter, then you could include the graphic in the post and then have it ready to go later when you promote the package. 
thoughts?

Author: @lwasser links are super easy! I've added in Justin's GH repo. and I agree with you on the package graphics for socials - I'll get those starting in May. when we "launched" this newsletter back in March I don't believe we'd started the social graphics for packages!

Reviewer: ok that sounds like a perfect plan. so when we accept new packages we can create a graphic and then promote it later on social whenever the timing fits (in between promoting the already-accepted packages. does that sound inline with what you are thinking? i'm just thinking when we accept a package, that triggers a graphic. and then we have some backlog of packages we haven't promoted yet too.

Author: exactly! so right now I've been working through the backlog of existing packages and promoting those on socials, but we'll eventually be caught up (yay!) and so what I'd like to eventually have is something like:
* package is accepted into pyOS
* I make a graphic and get the package promoted on socials within two weeks of the package being accepted
* the image (and package announcement) will get rolled into the newsletter (one day we'll have a full section JUST for new packages each month!)
* and in a perfect world, a package developer writes a guest blog post for the pyOS website 🤞

Have a package you’ve developed, but aren’t sure it’s in scope for pyOpenSci? Complete a [pre-submission inquiry](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/software-submission/issues/new?assignees=&labels=presubmission&projects=&template=presubmission-inquiry.md&title=) and one of our editors will be in touch!

## :airplane: We're going to [PyCon US](https://us.pycon.org/2024/)

> Will we see you there? Our Executive Director and Founder, [Leah Wasser](https://github.com/lwasser), had her talk about Python packaging for scientists accepted for this May's conference. We've seen a sneak peek of her talk, and guarantee that you won't want to miss it! Be sure to [register today](https://us.pycon.org/2024/accounts/login/?next=/2024/registration/register)!

Reviewer: Can we add the link to the abstract here: 

https://us.pycon.org/2024/schedule/presentation/34/

also you are too kind 😆 i haven't started my talk yet but plan to 🙃

Author: it's going to be amazing!

## :tada: Congratulations, Leah!

> Leah Wasser also received a [Better Scientific Software (BSSw) fellowship](https://bssw.io/pages/bssw-fellowship-program) to create lessons around collaborative open science using GitHub. The courses are currently in development, and we'll be sure to let you know once they're ready for registration!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Leah Wasser also received a [Better Scientific Software (BSSw) fellowship](https://bssw.io/pages/bssw-fellowship-program) to create lessons around collaborative open science using GitHub. We plan to turn the lessons into online workshops. We'll be sure to let you know once they're ready for registration!
```

Reviewer: or something like that. it just read a bit awkwardly but i love the direction!

[BSSw](https://bssw.io/) provides a central hub for the community to address pressing challenges in software productivity, quality, and sustainability.

## :books: New lessons are LIVE!

> pyOpenSci released new and updated lessons in our [Python Packaging Guide](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/index.html), designed to help scientists both make their Python code more shareable, as well as how to create a Python package. Be sure to check them out and let us know what you think!

Reviewer: can we link to the tutorials page here instead so people are directed to the tutorials https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/tutorials/intro.html

Author: fixed

> pyOpenSci released new and updated lessons in our [Python Packaging Guide](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/index.html), designed to help scientists both make their Python code more shareable, as well as how to create a Python package. Be sure to check them out and let us know what you think!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pyOpenSci released new and updated lessons in our [Python Packaging Guide](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/tutorials/intro.html), designed to help scientists both make their Python code more shareable, as well as how to create a Python package. Be sure to check them out and let us know what you think!
```

## :scientist: Upcoming Python Events for Scientists
### PyCon US 2024
The [PyCon US 2024 Maintainers Summit Call for Proposals](https://us.pycon.org/2024/events/maintainers-summit/) is LIVE until March 25th! Share your insights and experiences on best practices, developing sustainable projects, and nurturing thriving communities in a 10--15 minute talk.

### PyConDE & PyData Berlin
Registration is still live for [PyConDE & PyData Berlin](https://2024.pycon.de/), so be sure to grab your tickets while they still last! 

The event is scheduled for April 22nd--24th, _**with Inessa Pawson delivering the keynote address,**_ titled, "The Art and Science of Tending Open Source Orchards". 

> ## :envelope: Get the pyOpenSci monthly newsletter delivered directly to your inbox!

Reviewer: amazing
